# Privacy

Privacy matters! To earn retain the trust of your community, it is essential to
treat their data with the highest levels of security and privacy.

Calculating the metrics in the Orbit Model requires tracking the activities that
community members are doing. Given that this involves data collection, it's very
important to be aware of privacy concerns and local and international laws.

### Personally identifiable information (PII)

We recommend limiting the amount of PII stored to only what is needed for
analysis. Calculating Orbit Model metrics does not require identifying
information like phone numbers or email addresses. If the need to be stored for
other reasons, that may be acceptable, but there is no reason to collect and
store it only for calculating Orbit Model metrics.

### Member opt-out

We recommend providing a way for any community member to opt out of their
activities being tracked. This can be implemented via a form or an email
address. Once a community member has opted out, their activities should no
longer be tracked, and any historical information should be deleted.

### Anonymization

If the results of a community analysis are to be shared, one action that can be
taken is to anonymize the data. This can be done as the data is collected or
presented. It involves randomizing names, emails, social media handles and any
other identifiable information such that the analyis cannot be traced back to
specific individuals.

### Transparency

We recommend that community leaders be transparent about the data they are
collecting and how they are using it. Depending on the community, leaders can
share this information informally or create and circulate a community data
policy.

## Code of Conduct

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity
and orientation.

Please read our community [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/orbit-love/orbit-model/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
